---
templateKey: 'blog-post'
title: Ellie Roche
date: 2020-10-26T15:04:10.000Z
featuredpost: false
description: >-
  Class of 2019
tags:
  - Alumni
---

# What does the program mean to you?
Opportunity


# Why did you choose MSU?
I grew up in a rural state with a small swimming community. I was used to winning, and I knew I wanted a challenge. When I was looking at schools the only collegiate program in my state was the U of North Dakota. I wanted to experience living far away and so I looked towards the B1G stage. I was fortunate to find Coach G and his Michigan State Spartans. I found more than a team to help me grow as an athlete, I found a family. I was intimidated by the competing at the highest level, but the team helped me find confidence in my abilities. This confidence translated into my leadership on the team, and eventually into my personal goals to achieve more outside of my athletic career. 

While I was away at MSU, I watched my home state cut their only collegiate swim program in the state at the U of ND. I was heartbroken for my small state and the future of North Dakota’s swimmers. More than ever, I felt I had a larger duty to represent ND while I was at MSU. 

Now, I’m back in my home state coaching for the community that I was a part of for 13 years. My heart has been broken once again as I witnessed my own Alma mater make the same irrational decision to discontinue their swim & dive team. My heart aches for the future of all swim communities- small and large. If we’re not safe in small states like ND or on the B1G stage, then where are we safe? Which team will be next? I want more for the future of college swimming. 

# Biggest life-lesson you are learning/learned from MSU?

(also stated above oops) I found more than a team to help me grow as an athlete, I found a family. I was intimidated by the competing at the highest level, but the team helped me find confidence in my abilities. This confidence translated into my leadership on the team, and eventually into my personal goals to achieve more outside of my athletic career.