---
templateKey: 'blog-post'
title: Kendall Goit
date: 2020-10-26T15:04:10.000Z
featuredpost: false
description: >-
  Class of 2022
tags:
  - Current Athlete
---

# What does the program mean to you?
This program means so much to me. Having transferred to MSU last year and actually experiencing another college team, I can assure people that this team is like no other. This is the most close-knit, supporting team I have ever been on. Everyone is so close with one another, we truly are a family. With this program being cut, I feel like I lost a family member. I feel like a family member was taken from me so suddenly and I can not describe the pain. This program means everything to us swimmers. 


# Why did you choose MSU?
I choose MSU for multiple reasons. To begin, I loved the closeness of the team, which is honestly hard to find. I loved the coaches coach ethic and their personalities on deck. It really drove me to want to be a better swimmer and become a better person. These experiences from MSU have turned me into a better person, which I will always be grateful for. Regardless of what anyone says, I really love the pool. It is a pool that has so many memories for the current members of the team and many alumni. It doesn’t matter what a pool looks like, it matters what happens in that pool. 

# Biggest life-lesson you are learning/learned from MSU?

The biggest life lesson I learned from MSU is the true meaning of family. I will forever remember my teammates and stay in touch with them. I have been at a school that had all the “shiny bells and whistles”; however, at the end of the day that is not what matters. What matters is the people you are spending these times with, a team that shows you the true family dynamic is a team worth spending time with. 